H how is that hard so hard to understand
the the I'll tell you one reason they
want to make money on the drug and they
have to show that the drug by itself has
therapeutic benefit but if I put so I
it's more important to make the money
than it is to keep the person alive this
is the bottom line so uh people have to
know that uh I'm more interested in
seeing how long I can keep people alive
because that to me tells me we know what
we're doing and it's a use of different
drugs different diets, different
procedures that help each person as a
unique individual live longer uh with a
stage four cancer or any kind of cancer
for that matter. So I'm more interested
in keeping people alive than making
money.
So what is responsible
uh for this uh incredible uh increase
in cancer as you said? Well, it's never
one thing when you have a a disaster
like this or an epidemic of of whatever.
There's never just one thing that
contributes
uh uh to the crisis or to the um the to
the disaster, let's put it that way. And
this is a a medical disaster of
monumental proportions. Um we're seeing
younger and younger people getting
cancer. Let's go through the
explanations for why we have an increase
continued increase uh in in cancer. The
obesity epidemic
is now uh replacing smoking as a major
risk factor for cancer. Um obesity is
linked to type 2 diabetes and systemic
inflammation in the body. Uh systemic
inflammation damages mitochondria.
Mitochondria is the organel in the cell
that's responsible for efficient energy
production. Uh that or uh disruption of
that organel's ability to produce energy
efficiently is the origin of cancer.
when that organel becomes corrupted in a
variety of different ways from
inflammation from radiation from
chemical carcinogens from encogenic
viruses um uh intermittent hypoxy as I
said these kinds of thing and age by
itself aging aging uh any one of these
provocative uh agents can interrupt the
function of energy efficiency leading to
compensatory glucose and glutamine
driven fermentation and disregul ated
cell growth. Um uh so that's the origin
of cancer. Now why is it that that the
the numbers keep keep increasing and the
deaths the deaths keep increasing?
Because the uh world cancer institutes
from the National Cancer Institute in
the United States to the NHS in England
to all the major uh academic and and
research centers, they all are under the
belief that cancer is a genetic disease.
And when you take the world power of of
of treatment and focus on something
other than what the disease is, you have
no successful management. So um so when
you say when people say cancer is a
genetic disease, they seem they're
focusing on things that are not uh
central uh to the problem. Most of this
stuff is secondary downstream effects.
the mutations that we see in cancer,
this the development of precision
medicines to try to target these
mutations and the consequences of the
mutations, all of this is downstream
epiphenomenon. Uh if it's not central to
the problem, then the problem persists.
The problem does not go away. We know
that cancer is driven by a fermentation
metabolism. That's energy without
oxygen. And the fuels for that are the
sugar, glucose, and the amino acid uh
glutamine. And we know that the cancer
cells cannot burn fatty acids or ketone
bodies. So once you realize that all
cancers that we have looked at have a
problem in generating energy through
oxygen and are all dependent to some
degree or another on fermentation of two
different fuels and cannot burn fatty
acids or ketone bodies, then the
appropriate uh approach to managing the
disorder is to simultaneously restrict
the two fuels driving fermentation and
transition the whole body over to a fuel
ketone bodies and fatty acids. that the
cancer cells can't use and then they
will gradually be eliminated slowly and
and this will drop the death rate and
will make cancer a very manageable
disease. But the reason why that's not
being done is because the field thinks
cancer is a genetic disease and they're
not focusing on what I say. And then and
why is that? Because of ideological
dogma. People have been indoctrinated
into thinking cancer is a genetic
disease. And any form of indoctrination,
whether it's political, religious, or
scientific, prevents the brain from
being rational. You you have to have
rational thinking to break through
dogma. That's the way I look at it. And
as long as people are dogmatic and
thinking cancer is a genetic disease,
the numbers of dead people will continue
to increase year in and year out. That
that pretty much summarizes uh uh 100
years of scientific research uh uh in
this area.
>> Cancer cells survive without glucose and
only glutamine.
>> Um they can survive but they can't grow.
Um so uh if I take away the glucose uh
the glutamine will keep them alive uh to
some extent uh but they can't grow
because they need the carbons from the
glucose molecule to grow. If I have
glucose and take away the glutamine the
cancer cell can survive
uh but it can't grow because it needs
the nitrogen from the amino acid to to
grow to make new DNA and RNA. It's the
it's the two fuels together that are
absolutely essential for the continued
uh disregulated growth. And
>> there's a lot of confusion about uh
glucose. What does glucose do to the
mitochondria?
>> Glucose fuels mitochondria. And you and
I are burning glucose right now in our
mitochondria. Okay. But if we had
cancer, glucose would be fueling the
cancer as well. So, uh but the cancer
cell needs the glucose. Absolutely. It's
requirement. uh our normal cells can
switch to fatty acids and ketone bodies
which the cancer cell cannot use. So
then you can marginalize the ability of
that cell to survive by taking away the
glucose and also the glutamine. It has
to be done together because because some
cancers require more glucose than
glutamine. Other cancers more glutamine
than glucose. So if I take away both
fuels simultaneously and transition the
body over to ketosis, nutritional
ketosis, then you can um kill the cancer
cells. But you you have to be careful
because glutamine is an essential amino
acid required for the health of our gut
and our immune system. That's why we
developed the press pulse therapeutic
strategy which chronically stresses
glucose availability but intermittently
targets glutamine because kill cancer
cell keep immune system healthy. Kill
cancer cell keep immune cells and the
gut healthy. Kill cancer cells keep the
immune. So on off on off on off on off.
It's a pulsing pulsing pulsing pulsing.
If you try to chronically target
glutamine, you paralyze the immune
system and damage the gut. So you have
to know basic physiology of all organ
systems, how they work together and the
vulnerability uh of the tumor cell. And
based on that understanding, all major
cancers can be managed. Whether or not
they can be cured, I don't know. But we
can certainly manage them uh more
effectively without toxicity. That's
important. Is not a carcinogen. People
have to realize that they misunderstand
what glucose is. If you have cancer,
then glucose becomes a fuel. But glucose
is not participatory in the origin of
cancer. What glucose can do is it can
contribute to diabetes and obesity which
create inflammation in the bloodstream
which then damages oxidative fus. But
glucose itself is not a carcinogen. But
glucose is if you have cancer which is
disregulated cell growth. Glucose is the
fuel driving disregulated cell growth.
So if you take away glucose, that shuts
down a primary fuel for the disregulated
growth, but not the other fuel. You got
to target glutamine as well.
>> And could you tell us why is the
metabolic therapy so effective?
>> Because the cancer cells require the two
fuels, the fermentation fuels. Um, and
they can't grow a and they can't grow
without these two fuels. So they can't
use anything else. So uh metabolic
therapy restricts those two fuels uh
killing many many tumor cells and making
other parts of uh treatments more much
more effective. So without those fuels
you can't make new lipids, proteins or
nucleic acids. You you have to you need
building blocks. Number one, you need
building blocks and number two you need
energy. And without energy nothing can
grow, nothing can live. Um, how do we
know that? Because, uh, we we know
cyanide is a poison. Um, uh, people who
take cyanide are dead instantly. Uh,
because cyanide shuts down all the
energy in the cell. Okay? And you die.
Without energy, you die. Cancer cells
require energy, but they use an
alternative form. They use substrate
level phosphorilation, basically a
fermentation metabolism rather than
oxidative phosphorilation. And we have
found and published that uh the
glutamine can generate energy in the
mitochondria using a substrate level
phosphorilation or a fermentation
metabolism to replace the lost energy
from oxidative phosphorilation.
Interestingly enough if a person has a
tumor
this was done by Warberg and others and
us too um and give the give the animal
the cyanide uh it it kills the mouse or
the host but not the tumor. The tumor
can live without oxidative
phosphorilation. So that tells us it
must ferment. What does it ferment?
Glucose and glutamine. How do you know
this? Because we tested it. We we took
away we tested all the different amino
acids to see which one is the most
effective. And glutamine is the most
effective. So you target the glutamine
and take away the glucose and transition
to ketones. The tumor cells die. They
they can't live. Uh and then um then you
know how to manage the cancer. It's it's
not that it's not that complicated. It's
ma it was made to be complicated,
massively complicated because people
thought cancer is a genetic disease and
there's millions of different kinds of
mutations making a bewilderingly
complicated disease. But when you look
at it based on the energy and
bioenergetics, it's a very simple
disease. This is driven by fermentation.
And then you say, well, well, if that's
known, why don't we target fermentation
metabolism in cancer patients and manage
the disease? And the answer is because
the field thinks cancer is a genetic
disease. It's a they're brainwashed into
thinking it's something other than what
it is. And therefore, we get 1700 people
a day dying needlessly from this. And
around the world as well. So, um, I
mean, it's the most it's the greatest
tragedy in the history of medicine. I I
I I I just once people wake up to
realize what I am saying, people are
going to just be so mortified by the
fact that we had a we had a proc we have
we have a ways right now to drop this
death rate and and keep people alive
longer and we are not doing that.
>> I remember I read a paper where you
published where the higher the blood
sugar the faster the tumor grows and the
lower the blood sugar the slower the
tumor grows. Uh yes, we were the first I
think to publish this back in 200 uh2
uh where we showed a direct relationship
between how high blood sugar is and how
fast the mouse tumor in the brain would
grow. So we showed that the lower the
sugar, the slower the growth and the
higher the sugar glucose of course the
faster the tumor growth. Then we started
to see many of similar kinds of studies
done in humans with all kinds of
different cancers, breast cancer, colon
cancer, brain cancer.
The the higher the sugar, the more
rapidly the tumor would grow. And the
lower the sugar, the less rapidly the
tumor would grow. Um, and it was
published in many many papers uh showing
this relationship uh between the level
of blood sugar and and how fast the
tumor would grow. And this is why I
don't understand how some oncologists or
even physicians would say that glucose
has nothing to do uh with the growth of
the tumor. It absolutely does. It's in
the literature. A big problem. Another
reason why we're not making any advances
is the people who should know the
information never were never told of the
information nor do they read the
scientific literature. Um, so that's
another reason why we have this uh
catastrophe in cancer is that people
don't either don't read the scientific
literature or even worse don't even
understand it. So um and then we have
the tragedy.
>> What blood sugar level did you observe
where the tumor doesn't grow
>> that that goes to the glucose ketone
index calculator and uh the don't forget
um the brain is largely responsible for
taking in most of the sugar in our body.
Okay, the brain um however the brain can
switch over to ketone bodies when you
lower blood sugar. So, but the cancer
cell can't switch over. So, this is the
difference. So, many of our heart and
muscles and things like this, they can
all switch to ketones and fatty acids
while you lower blood sugar. But the
brain, even when you lower blood sugar,
uh the brain will take what's available
before any other organ will. The last
group of cells that will get the sugar
will be the cancer. Because if you
exercise, muscle takes sugar out of the
bloodstream to build glycogen and burns
it in the muscle. The brain takes
whatever the what's available. And the
cancer cells are the last one to take
what's left. So even if you lower your
blood sugar down to um a low GK, glucose
ketone index is what we call it. Uh what
the you say, well, you didn't get rid of
all your glucose. That's true because
the muscle and the brain need it uh
before the tumor cell needs it. So the
last the last cells to get it are the
tumor cells. So when you lower down the
brain and the muscles are going to take
what little you have in there and the
tumor cells are going to get much much
less and they're going to die. So uh
exercise and low GKI puts a tremendous
uh uh stress on the availability of the
tumor cell to survive. And then you
simply come in with a drug that targets
the glutamine and you slaughter these
tumor cells. Slaughter them. So um and
you keep the body healthy while you're
doing this. And gradually the tumor gets
smaller and smaller and more indolent
and more indolent where a surgical
procedure or radiation procedure or some
final procedure with an imunotherapy
could potent potentially cure the
disease potentially. But you put the
metabolic pressure first and then you
come in with the other strategies to
remove the final survivors. And if
someone cannot tolerate ketogenic diet
and wants to reach this ketogenic state,
what can they eat?
>> You know, it depends on each person.
Some people can't tolerate ketogenic
diets, but they can tolerate um a
carnivore diet or a fish diet. Uh it
depends on the person. What is the best
way to keep the person uh relatively
happy or not stressed out and killing
cancer cells? And everybody has to
determine that for themselves. They
always ask me, "Oh, what? He never said
what to eat." I cannot tell you what to
eat because you might be different from
the other guy. He, oh, he said to eat
that and I ate that, it didn't work, and
he ate that and it worked. Just use your
glucose ketone index with the Keto Mojo
meter, and you'll know what you can and
cannot eat. And that varies from one
person to the next. So,
as I said, if you have a diet that's
balanced appropriately in micro and
macronutrients and low and highly
processed carbs, it's probably pretty
good for you. Eat a little bit of it and
see what it does to your GKI. And then
you'll know whether or not you're in the
zone of of therapeutic ketosis, which is
healthy, keeping your mitochondria
healthy, reducing oxygen free radicals,
and reducing the risk for cancer and
other chronic diseases. Diet can lower
glucose, but the diet cannot lower
glutamine. Therefore, it's a pressed
pulse and the pulsing comes from drugs.
>> What are some of the agents that lower
glutamine and which one did you find to
be the most effective?
>> Well, you can lower we actually found
that the drug six deoxy uh norucine it
looks like glutamine. That's the in our
in our in our research that's the most
effective so far. Um which targets the
ability of glutamine to be metabolized
to glutamate. So it blocks the blocks
that first metabolic step. Uh that drug
was in fact used for many years on
children and people with different
cancers but it was discontinued
because they said it was toxic. Uh it's
not as toxic as the red devil doc
rubicon and all these horrible
chemicals. Um uh it's off patent so
people can't make money on it. Uh but
the other thing too is when they did use
DAN which is dioxin nor leucine they
never targeted glucose. They did they
didn't do it right. They didn't do it
right and they didn't transition the
body to ketones. Um and therefore the
the the most important drug that we know
of to manage cancer is not being used
because they didn't do it right. So uh
but there the drug companies are making
other drugs um that can target glutamine
and these are coming on the market but
they don't target the glucose and put
the body in nutritional ketosis when
they're using their drugs. So the effect
efficacy of these drugs can be some
efficacy for sure but they're not going
to be maximum unless you target the
glucose when the body is in nutritional
ketosis.
How is that hard so hard to understand
the the I'll tell you one reason they
want to make money on the drug and they
have to show that the drug by itself has
therapeutic benefit but if I put so I
it's more important to make the money
than it is to keep the person alive this
is the bottom line so uh people have to
know that uh I'm more interested in
seeing how long I can keep people alive
because that to me tells me we know what
we're doing and it's a use of different
drugs different diet diets, different
procedures that help each person as a
unique individual live longer uh with a
stage four cancer or any kind of cancer
for that matter. So, I'm more interested
in keeping people alive than making
money.
>> Could you talk to us please about the
experiment where they took the nucleus
from a cancer cells and put it in a
normal cell and took the nucleus from a
normal cell and put it in a cancerous
cell. nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments uh were were were telling us
that if you take the nucleus uh out of
the tumor cell, re isolate the nucleus
from the cytoplasm
of a tumor cell and uh put that nucleus
into the cytoplasm of a normal cell and
then put that cell under the skin of a
rat. uh you don't get you don't get uh
uh any growth. You don't that whatever
whatever happened uh suppressed the abn
whatever was in the nucleus that was
thought to cause disregulated growth I
was was was reduced was removed. On the
other hand, if you take the nucleus
uh uh of the normal cell
uh and put it into the cytoplasm of a
tumor cell and then put that under the
skin of the rat, you got disregulated
growth and a big tumor.
>> So, uh clearly what it was telling us it
is the mitochondria in the cytoplasm,
not the mutations in the nucleus that
are causing the disregulated cell
growth. uh and this has been done both
in vitro in culture dishes as well as in
living animals uh frogs and mice uh all
of these things. And then on the other
hand, if you take an aggressive tumor
and remove the mitochondria from the
cytoplasm and put in new mitochondria
from a normal cell, you get a
suppression of the disregulated growth.
On the other hand, if you have an
indolent tumor growing very very slow uh
and you remove the mitochondria and put
the mitochondria from the aggressive
tumor into the cytoplasm of the indolent
tumor, the indolin tumor now becomes
super aggressive. So clearly
disregulated cell growth is due to
abnormalities in mitochondria structure
and function not in the mutations in the
nucleus
>> that supports that it's a metabolic
disease rather than a genetic disease.
>> That's the strongest evidence that we
know of. And then we also know that you
have to realize in the genetic uh dogma
that uh you have many thousands of
different kinds of mutations that can be
found in tumor cells and not all the
mutations are considered drivers of the
disregulated growth. Only some mutations
were thought to be drivers. They call
driver because that mutation is more
important than the passenger mutation
which just doesn't do anything. So what
we're now finding so the the genetic
field said oh cancer is a genetic
disease but only uh due to driver
mutations. So uh if you have uh these
drivers that would lead to disregulated
cell growth. Um but now new information
is showing that normal cells in our body
you me uh we have mutations in driver
genes that are not causing any
disregulated cell growth. So that's
another piece of evidence that
completely dis disengages the gene
theory that we have driver mutations in
our body that don't form cancer. Um and
now we have some cancer cells that have
no mutations. So yet they're
disregulated in the cell growth. Not too
many, very rare, but it does happen. Um
so so clearly what this is telling us
the nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments the f the findings of driver
gene mutations in normal cells all of
this is telling us it's it's the the
cancer cannot be driven by disreg by by
mutations disregulated cell growth is
not caused by somatic mutations and the
and the germline mutations that are risk
factors all of the germline mutations
disrupt mitochondrial energy function.
So clearly origin of cancer is a it's a
mitochondrial metabolic disease and the
mutations that we see in cancer cells
come from the abnormal metabolism of the
mitochondria. So reactive oxygen species
are carcinogenic and mutagenic and
they're coming out of the abnormal
mitochondria and they cause the nuclear
gene mutations and broken chromosomes
and this kind of stuff. So clearly or
when you put all the parts together,
cancer is a mitochondrial metabolic
disease driven by a fermentation
metabolism involving glucose and
glutamine and an inability to transition
over to fatty acids and ketone bodies.
How do we know that? I did the
experiments. I showed the evidence and
published the evidence in the scientific
literature. And then you say, well, how
come nobody wants to because they're
dogma. the the dogma, the brain can't
think when it's indoctrinated
and the jobs and the money and the
billions and billions of dollars locked
into a failed theory and we have 1700
people in the United States dying every
day because the brain can't get out of
the dogmatic view. It's it's an
ideological dogma and I tell you
everything this I show you all the
evidence. I did the experiments. I show
the efficacy. Can't be true. Can't be
true.
Tell you tell me what's wrong with that
picture. You tell me what what's wrong
with this picture.
>> I mean it's difficult to argue against
anything you said and you have explained
it very clearly. Do you have this sort
of conversation with oncologist and what
is their reaction?
>> They get pissed off. A lot of them get
angry.
They get they get angry because they
said I never heard this and never taught
this in medical school. Oh because you
haven't heard it in medical school that
means it can't be true. And some of them
are very good. They say well we got to
learn. we have to know what you guys
know. And I said, "Yeah, that's going to
drop the cancer death rate. That's going
to manage the disease." Lot of reasons
for why what I said cannot be accepted.
You have a multi-billion dollar industry
running on a somatic mutation theory of
the disease and it's not that. And yet
everybody's making a lot of money on
this and then you come along and say
it's a completely different disease than
what you thought. Oh, how are we going
to make these changes? But don't forget,
we're not getting rid of standards of
care. Uh we're we're still keeping
radiation chemo. Surgical mutilation
surgery can be done as a final stage for
the cure. Uh because you can cure cancer
with surgery if you can take out the we
want to bring the tumor down uh make it
less angry small like a wart something
really small less less angry less
inflamed and then you can surgically
debulk it. So surgery is still part of
this. Yes, we can still use radiation.
Yes, we can still use chemotherapy. You
just have to know the order in which you
need to do these things and that
requires a retraining. So um and
understanding what you need to shrink
your tumor down, make it indolent, weak
and now come in with other therapies to
potentially deliver a cure. Uh metabolic
therapy is not likely to uh call produce
a cure, but it can certainly allow the
combination of all of the therapies
together to lead to a cure. So but right
now we're not doing it. We're not doing
it correctly. We're using therapies uh
upfront uh based on a sematic mutation
theory. Uh that's not not effective. You
got to do you have to rearrange the
order in which you attack this tumor in
the right way. You want to make sure
there is no toxicity in the treated
patient there. They just don't know how
to do what we what we already know how
to do. And once we once our word gets
out, you're going to see incredible
responses on these on these patients.
So, uh, is it going to be quick? No,
it's not going to be quick. It could
take you 6 months to a year to to manage
cancer in the in the correct way.
>> But when you emerge when you emerge from
the treatment, you'll be much healthier
than you were when you started. Not only
will your cancer be under control, but
your whole body your whole body will be
healthier. From your observation, when
you target these cancer cells, do they
disappear, shrink, slow down? What
happens with these cancer cells?
>> We we we did we did this. So, um uh all
three all three of what you said, they
they shrink uh uh they die uh in
different you can see the dead cancer.
We we did that. You can look at dead
cells under the microscope and see the
dead cells. uh when we did glucose
glutamine targeting uh with Don uh we
saw massive numbers of dead of of dead
cells but but we uh dead cancer cells of
course in our pre-clinical system um and
we saw some cells in other cases in
humans where they a lot of them were
killed and uh but they not they were not
all dead and that's where you have to
move the the the the process forward to
see if we can kill the rest of them. But
here's the situation. If you kill a lot
of cancer cells all at the same time,
you have all these dead bodies, dead
cancer cell bodies laying around in a
particular tissue. Uh, our immune system
is designed to come in and and um gobble
up and remove dead cells. That's part of
what our macroofagages do. Macroofage is
a type of immune cell that will uh wound
be effective in wound healing. So, we
kill a lot of cancer cells. Uh the
problem is if we are too aggressive on
glutamine targeting, we prevent our
immune cells from picking up the dead
bodies, the dead cancer cells. That's
why it's absolutely crucial that when
you target glucose and glutamine and
kill a lot of cancer cells, you have to
pull the glutamine targeting off and let
our immune cells get back to their their
normal job and picking up the dead
bodies. If you're too aggressive on the
glutamine, you kill a lot of cancer
cells but prevent the immune system from
cleaning up the micro environment,
therefore leading to an infection and
making another kind of a problem that
you shouldn't have in the first place.
Again, this is we have such a a broad
knowledge of of cancer. Uh we are able
to track down those cells and kill them
uh without harming the rest of the body
when we know what to do and how to do
it. Because I've looked at all these
things. I have answers to your questions
mainly because I did the experiments
next door with my with my with my
colleagues and we exactly do what you
ask. What happens to these cells? Where
do they go? What's going on with these
things? Yes, we looked at them and we
saw exactly some of them are shrunken.
Some of them are outright killed. Some
of them just hang on. Uh we didn't kill
them all. So that's why we're still
perfecting the procedure. We already
published the paper. We already set out
the protocol what to do and how to do
it. And there it sits in the scientific
literature right there. So you want to
make a t read that paper have the
oncologists and and physicians
assistants and the whole uh operation
follow what we are saying you will drop
death death death death rates uh within
the next several years here we did we
published what more do we want to what
more can I do what more can we do we
already showed what's going on we have
some big papers some one of our papers
just came out the other day it's already
got 16,000 views for the first time
showing that cancer cells are getting
energy inside the mitochondria from our
fermentation mechanism. The field did
not know about this. That's why the
glutamine has to be targeted. We have an
outline. We have a clear outline
supported by hard scientific evidence
that we can drop the needle, move the
needle significantly in dropping the
death rate of cancer. The problem is
that it it's a these are not the the
interference with what I'm saying has
nothing to do with science. It has to do
with policy and acceptance of the
scientific facts, not the science
itself. The science to my mind is quite
solid and it's based on decades of
research.
>> Yeah. And are there ongoing clinical
trials at the moment?
>> No, there are no clinical trials because
I told you the hospitals think cancer is
a genetic disease and they haven't
figured out how to how to make a profit
on that. Right now the medical
institution is not is not in the
position where they want to change the
standard of care. It's very very
profitable. people making a lot of
money, hospitals, pharmaceutical
companies, oncologists, they make a lot
of money treating cancer. And now you
come in and you say, "What are you going
to do? Water only fasting and use
repurposed drugs? Who's going to pay for
this?" You know, the only the only
people to benefit from metabolic are the
patients. The the system yet is not yet
ready to accept a therapeutic strategy
that's effective and not toxic uh and
and and and cheap. you know, bottom
line, it's a massive expensive industry
and everybody is doing really well
financially except the patients. So, uh
um you know, you're not going to change
until you until there has to be an
outcry on the part of the world
population to say we want metabolic
therapy. The problem is that the field
doesn't they're locked into a an
ideological dogma thinking it's a
genetic disease and therefore the field
all are trying to target genes and then
you have 1,700 people a day dying as the
result of a misunderstanding of what the
nature of the disease is. It's not
complicated said it's when is it going
to overtake it should never ever
overtake heart disease ever. we can drop
those death rates by by 30% in five
years, 50% in 10 years. Uh once you
start learning how to do metabolic
therapy and running the clinics, that
should be the way it should be done.
Now, if people don't want to do that uh
uh so it's a it has to go from policy,
it has to go Yeah. I just heard the
other day I was saying, "Oh, we're going
to make vaccines and we're going to do
all this kind of crazy stuff."
>> Okay. Stuff now they're talking.
>> Yeah. We had we had big Watson computer
one time. uh he could beat anybody in
chess and he bu beat win all these game.
So they brought him in to figure out
cancerous the gene mutations that might
be causing cancer and he was reaming
smoke coming out of the machine and
doing all this kind of stuff and then he
made recommendations to the oncologist.
The oncologists were smart enough to
know a recommendation from this super
intelligent computer uh would have
killed cancer patients. So no one told
the machine that cancer is not a genetic
disease. that the goddamn machine was
too stupid to know that. So, AI is only
as smart as the guys that are trying to
work with it. So, if if and then if you
go on the web and say ask AI, AI is
cancer a genetic disease? Uh yes, cancer
is a genetic disease. Then you go on to
AI is AI is cancer a metabolic disease?
Yes, cancer is a metabolic disease.
Well, it can't be both at the same time.
It's either one or the other. I is the
earth the center of the solar system or
is it the sun the center of the solar
system? You ask AI, AI would say, "Oh,
no. The earth is the center of the solar
system and the sun revolves around the
earth and the AI, what about the the
sun? Oh, the sun is the center of the
and all the planets revolve around the
sun." So, so I mean again it comes down
to the theory. If the treatments are
based on an incorrect theory, the
outcome is not likely to be uh effective
and that's what we see as we said and
right now the pharmaceutical companies
are gearing up that in 2050 uh you know
one out of two people are going to have
cancer. more and more young people are
going to have cancer. The profits are
going to be enormous in can I can drop
that. We can prevent all that stuff from
happening right now today. We have to do
re-educate the oncology community to
know that cancer is a metabolic disease
uh driven by glucose and glutamine and
they can't transition over to ketones.
So therefore transition the body to
ketosis, target simultaneously glucose
and glutamine and bring in your standard
of care procedures when you need them.
Um and that's the solution to the cancer
problem. or a a a rational um solution
based on hard science.
>> And could you talk to us a little bit
about hyperaric oxygen therapy and
cancer?
>> The Austinino and I and others uh you
can't if you bring your glucose ketone
index down, you put a lot of pressure on
the tumor cells, they'll produce ross
reactive oxygen species from the oxy the
high pressure oxygen. And then when
they're in the low glucose and you give
them the glutamine while they're in
hyperbaric oxygen, it's a facilitator to
kill cancer cells. It's a replacement of
of radi radiation and chemo in some
ways. And it can make radiation and
chemo even more even significantly more
powerful by increasing reactive oxygen
species which will kill the cancer cell.
>> And how often is the glutamine therapy
given is there like a duration and
frequency?
>> That's the cutting edge right now. It
it's called dosage, timing, and
scheduling. We are still working on that
and that's interesting because all of
our funding for for doing this is
philanthropy and private foundations
because uh uh those figuring out doses
timing and scheduling is what they call
oh this is this is not sexy science you
know this this is not cutting edge sexy
science but it'll keep damn people alive
longer that's what it will do that has
to be determined for humans how long can
we hit them with the glutamine targeting
at what drug and what scheduling uh and
And that has to be trial and error with
each patient. And then once we see how
patients respond, then we can imple
implement it in a more uh a more
outlined way based on our experience.
But we don't know gender. You you have
issues of of of age and gender from
people. Um and these all have to be
worked out with those timing and
scheduling. We just know what to do uh
and generally how to do it. But the
actual specific of it's the glutamine
predominantly because we don't have to
worry about glucose. Um but it's that
that that and what better drugs do we
how many different drugs will do the
same thing um targeting glutamines uh
effectively without causing toxicity.
What dosage when do we schedule this?
How is the timing uh uh when the patient
reaches a certain point then we come in
and do this. this has to still be worked
out and we do it preclinally first in
the models that we developed and then we
get some idea and then I translate it
immediately over to the clinic my my
physician friends and they will say oh
you know uh we found out if you do it
this way and that way it a little better
come back into the pre-clinical system
and perfect feed forward feedback feed
forward feedback until we perfect the
system you're not going to have
everything right done we have all the
concepts down we just don't have the
actual um the precision precision
metabolism ism for each person.
>> You said when the science comes, you
cannot suppress the truth and I'm
documenting the evidence and this is
exactly what you're doing. So, thank you
very much once again and I hope all of
your hard work um lead to the results
and outcome that you are hoping for.
certainly hope so and and and thank you
very much for uh asking really important
questions that can help uh people
understand uh what the issues are and
eventually you're right things will will
change for the for the better that and
that's the hope that we